Hey, look Dad, there's some footage
with you in it, which is pretty rare
since you like to be behind the camera.
There you are feeding me some ice
cream while something is definitely
going on with that shirt collar.
Hey, remember that time that you
were filming us and Missy hit
me with that jump rope thingy?
See, watch.
Here she goes, 3, 2, 1.
Boom.
I doubt it really hurt, but I
cried and said, Missy, hit me.
See, watch my lips.
Missy hit me.
What did you do?
You pointed and said,
go hit her right back.
So I did.
Look, it wasn't your best
advice, and that's okay.
And now she's coming after me.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
Well look, let's face it.
You were balancing a career, a marriage,
and the most time consuming of all being a
dad, and we knew how to push your buttons.
We were experts at crying for
no reason in the same way.
There's no reason to
spin that in front of me.
It will make me come after you, sis.
Anyway, I'm thankful that you
stuck with us and didn't stop.
You didn't stop showing grace.
You didn't stop loving us where we were.
You didn't stop filming your son when he
basically curled up into a ball of tears,
but you honored the Sacred Dad rule.
Keep the camera rolling
to all the dads out there.
Happy Father's Day.
Thanks for letting us have a good
cry for no reason, and then off.
All right, well, welcome back everybody.
Um, hoping that you guys all
have some amazing plans today.
I got asked the question, what
am I doing for Father's Day?
I'm taking a nap.
That's success for me because I feel
guilty every other day of the year when
I go home and take a nap on Father's
Day, I'm like, this is something I've
earned all year, so I'm gonna sleep good.
Don't text me between one and three.
Yes, I do sleep for two hours.
That does happen.
Um, if you're anything like me, you
don't go to take naps in the bed.
If you do that, you won't
wake up till the next day.
I do it in the living room so that at
some point the kids annoy me enough that
I get up and then I don't sleep all night.
So anyways, hey, happy Father's Day.
I know I've already said that
before, but um, you know, whenever
we started thinking about Father's
Day, and you know, sometimes whenever
we have special days like this, we.
Do a theme Father's Day where we
take a message and we jump in, and
sometimes we're just gonna continue
on the series that we're in.
Well, last week we actually finished up
our series, so this is a great opportunity
to jump into a Father's Day message.
And so I wanna start off by
saying, number one, if you're
sitting in this room and going.
But I'm not a father.
Um, hey, it's okay.
This message will still speak to
you, and so I'll give you kind
of a couple of different levels.
Number one, this message will
speak to fathers, aspiring fathers,
speak to parents, aspiring parents,
and if you're a kid in the room,
this'll just, it'll be good.
Okay?
It'll be good.
It's, it's, it's actually what I would
say this is if you are a kid in the
room and you're saying, man, what?
As a godly parent today, I hope that
you'll learn what that is, and hopefully
you see that in your parents, and
if you don't, don't call 'em out.
Encourage them.
Okay, encourage them.
Um, so I hope that it
really encourages you today.
I know it did for me.
So we're gonna be in Deuteronomy
chapter six and we're gonna go
through verses one through nine today.
Um, and, uh, we'll, we'll talk a
little bit more about that, but I
wanna talk about the idea behind
fathers have one of the greatest
influences on their children's lives.
And you know, most of us say, well,
duh, I believe fathers actually have
the ability to have the greatest
influence on their children.
That's not a knock towards mom.
So if you're in this room,
don't throw trash at me.
Mothers make an amazing difference
in their children's lives.
Well, when we begin to think about,
even statistics will tell you this.
That fathers make some
of the greatest impacts.
Um, and so I was just doing a little
bit of research in national centers
for fathering says this, that children
from fatherless homes are more likely
to be poor, become involved in drug and
alcohol abuse, drop out of school, suffer
from health and emotional problems.
Boys are more likely to become
involved in crime and girls are more
likely to become pregnant as teens.
And then I just begin to do a little bit
more reading that 25% of homes that have
children in them have absent fathers.
And then if you even begin to
look into, um, basically people
that are incarcerated, over 85% of
the people that are incarcerated
grew up in non father homes.
And so we find that, that that
statistic begins to be a big deal
that fathers do make a difference.
And in that same article that I
was reading, they said that there
was a ministry that was actually
ministering to this prison.
And there was over a thousand inmates.
And what they would do is on Mother's
Day, they would offer up the opportunity
that they could write Mother's Day cards.
They would give 'em cards to write.
And about a, you know, I think
it was about three quarters of
the people requested Mother's Day
cards when it came to Father's Day.
Three people.
And that same a thousand, uh, room
prison requested Father's Day cards.
And so what we see is that fathers
can make either a positive.
Or a negative impact.
And so fathers, hopefully that
encourages you, not discourages
you of the importance of your role.
And my hope today is that through the
word of God, that we'll learn how to
play an important role in our children's
lives, um, and not look at it as a burden.
And so fathers set the example, and I
want you to leave with that thought.
Father, set the example.
And again, if you're not a father in this
room, Parents set the example, or I wanna
make this one statement, aspiring fathers
or parents, don't wait until you have kids
to start working on being a good parent.
Don't wait until you have kids to
start working on being a good parent.
You can actually prepare now and
we'll talk about how that works.
And then the reason why I even say that,
I'd say that from experience because
it took us having our first child.
And Brittany looking at me and saying,
Hey, we gotta get this, um, you
know, spiritual thing figured out.
And I was like, well, what do you mean?
She's like, I wanna raise
my kids in the church.
And I'm like, okay.
And she's like, but I want
you to lead us to do that.
I'm like, okay.
And it took me a little over a
year to figure out how to do that
and coming to faith in Christ and
trying to figure those things out.
And I just think, man, if I could
have figured that out earlier.
So that's just hopefully
an encouragement to you.
Um, but it has been said that.
It only takes a few minutes to
become a father, but it takes
a lifetime to become a dad.
And I think that's something that
I've learned that, um, after four
kids, um, that I didn't really
get it right with the first one.
Got a little bit better with the second
one, and by the fourth one, he's just
spoiled and I'm always Got it right.
Right.
Because he just gets whatever he wants.
But it seems like we're
always trying to get better.
We're wanting to be a better
father, better parent.
Um, we're wanting to be better and
uh, I think that the Lord guides
us through that in his word.
And whenever I begin to think about.
A list of things that
fathers teach their children.
I think of fathers are responsible in
teaching their children to follow Jesus.
I think of fathers teaching their
children how to respect their mother,
um, to respect other people, uh, to be
responsible, have a good work ethic.
And that list could go
over and on and on and on.
But when I think about our kids and we
think about the influence that we have,
We set the example and I want you guys to
see this quick video that actually Peyton
sent me this past week of a funny, uh, way
that a, a father, um, impacts his kids.
And so see if they can play
that video and see if it works.
You may have seen this one
before, watching a football game.
Kids super happy Dad's not
sees his dad not happy and
he follows after his example.
Is this not reality?
Our kids are always watches and
I think that's so funny because.
That's what they do.
I remember, and I should have showed
the video of Chaney whenever he was
younger, he was in, again, forgive me,
I know we're not in Sooner country,
but we are fans of Oklahoma Sooners
and he was wearing his Sooners little
onesie and he could barely speak and
I had taught him how to say football.
And so I would say it and he
would say football, and that's
about the only thing he could say.
And we recorded that.
And the thing was is that
he was modeling after me.
I was teaching him, I
was setting the example.
And to this day, my son's a huge
OU fan in Ohio, which is crazy.
Um, and so, I look at this saying,
we all set the example in this
and what we teach our kids.
Um, and so I wanna dive into this
today, but I really wanna give
you some background in Deuteronomy
before we jump into reading the text.
Um, but with Deuteronomy, this
is the fifth book of the law.
And so the first five books of the Bible
are called the Torah, uh, or the Law.
And this is where we learned
Moses was most likely the writer
of these first five books.
And he had already shared
the law, what God had given
him to share with the people.
And the first thing that he
gave the law to the people they
rebelled, they did not obey the
law and what their consequence was.
If you remember with Moses, Moses
led the people out of Egypt.
They were enslaved in Egypt.
He led them out of Egypt.
He was leaving them to the Promised Land.
He gave them the law.
They decided to reject the law and
to reject really trusting the Lord.
And so their punishment was they
would never inherit the promised land.
And then Moses did something that
didn't allow him to inherit the promised
land, but he had a responsibility
to teach the next generation that
was gonna go into the promised land.
And this is kind of
where we're picking up.
And Deuteronomy is the second
proclamation of the law.
And I dunno if you guys ever read
the Bible sometimes and you're
like, didn't it already say this?
Didn't we already learn this?
Why are they repeating the law?
Because they easily forgot the
law and so he had to repeat it
again to the next generation.
And so that's kind of where we're
picking up here is Moses speaking
and preparing the next generation
for experiencing and inheriting the
promised land that God had for them.
And so in the first three chapters
of Deuteronomy, Moses is reminding
the next generation of what
happened to their parents before.
Right?
And then in the next couple of chapters
in verse or chapters four through five,
He calls them to obedience and commitment
to the law, and this is where we get
in Deuteronomy chapter five is the.
10 commandments, and most of us have
heard those and memorized those.
And so he gives them the 10
commandments in chapter five.
And then today we're picking up in
chapter six, uh, where Moses is gonna
talk about the greatest command.
If you have ever read in the
gospels, Jesus repeats this greatest
command and then he adds one to it.
And so we'll talk about that today.
And so whenever we're reading this
text, a lot of times, this is how I
read the text, and I wanna continue
to encourage you and teach you
how, whenever I jump into the word.
How I read it, I want you to read it
today and listen to it today as though
Moses is speaking directly to you.
Some of the context is gonna be a little
bit different because we're not going
into the promised land, but what I would
say is we are going into the next day
of our lives, the, the land and the life
and the calling that God has given us.
And so as we are going into
this life, I encourage you to
listen to what Moses is speaking.
To you in this.
Um, and before I jump into this
text, I wanna ask this question
to those who are parents, fathers,
aspiring parents, do you desire to
see your kids come to know Jesus?
Awesome.
Well, today I believe that you'll learn
along with me how we can help that and
help our kids by setting the example.
And so let's read this text today
again, Deuteronomy chapter six.
Verses one through nine.
It says this, this is the command,
the statutes, and the ordinances.
The Lord your God has commanded
me to teach you so that you
may follow them in the land you
are about to enter and possess.
Do this so that you may fear the Lord
your God all the days of your life by
keeping all of his statutes and commands.
I'm giving you your son and your grandson
so that you may have a long life.
Listen Israel and be careful.
Follow them so that you may prosper and
multiply greatly because the Lord, the
God of your fathers has promised you a
land of flowing of with milk and honey.
Listen, Israel, the Lord
our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God with all
your heart, with all your soul,
and with all your strength.
These words that I'm giving you
today are to be in your heart.
Repeat them to your children.
Talk about them when you sit in
your house and when you walk along
the road, and when you lie down.
And when you get up, bind them as
a sign on your hand and let them
be a symbol on your forehead.
Write them on the doorposts of
your house and on your city gates.
Let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we pray that your word
begins to penetrate our hearts and our
lives, Lord, that we take something from
this today and we learn how to set the
example for the next generation, uh,
for our kids, for our grandkids, uh,
for the future people that will impact.
Lord, I just pray that you guide us
today as we walk through your word and
we just pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So, two things that we're
gonna prioritize as.
Fathers parents.
Again, I wanna continue to see, uh, as
I begin to talk today, make sure that
you're hearing what I'm saying today.
Um, two things that we can prioritize
in order to be a godly example to
our children or our grandchildren.
Um, and so the first one that we
learned in this text is to have a
personal relationship with Jesus.
Now that sounds very logical.
You expect the pastor to say this first
step of being a godly example is to
have a personal relationship with Jesus.
That seems like a dust statement.
But I know a lot of parents that would
say this, I want my kids to go to church.
And they would drop their kids off
to youth group and they would leave.
I want my kids to grow up in the church,
and they come to church and they put
their kids in class and they're happy that
their kids are learning about Jesus, but
they're really just sitting in service
to make sure their kids get Jesus.
They, they also, I know parents that
say this, Hey, I wanna get my kids
in the church because I need them
to teach them about Jesus because
I don't know what, how to do it.
And so I say this to the fact is God has
given the responsibility to you to help
your kids know Jesus, not the churches.
And how do we know that?
We know that because Moses, his
role was to teach the parents.
To teach the next generation.
So we're gonna kinda look at this
where Moses is speaking in this text
specifically to the leaders of Israel.
And when you begin to look at the
leaders of Israel, they were men.
And this is nothing of against the women,
but typically the men's responsibility
was to lead the home spiritually.
I was actually having an amazing
conversation that I won't get all in.
Last night right after dinner was
talking with Jason and Christina
and this idea behind the men's role.
And the men's role is not to be a
dictator to to truly be a servant.
Someone who sets the example.
In the home.
So men, whenever you wanna
be like, woman submit, that's
probably not a good thing to say.
If you want, don't wanna
get smacked upside the head.
Um, but really it's, it's truly
serving not only your spouse, but
your children in such a way that
you can model who God is to them.
That's on us.
That is on us.
And I, I would say this, that God
wants to do that in and through us.
So our, our children not only
need us to love the Lord, but they
need us to set the example, right?
We can't just send them to church and
expect the church to be the only thing
that invests in them spiritually.
Uh, but God has called
us to lead the families.
And how do we know that?
Again, we look at this, Moses' role
was to teach, and whenever I sit
up here today, my role is to teach.
My role is not to just be the only
influence in your children's life,
to help them come to faith in Christ,
grow in their relationship with Christ.
And if they fail, it's not my
responsibility in that either.
It's, it's really on you and
that sounds, again, really tough.
But we see this, that Moses's role is to
teach the word of God, and it says its
statues and its ordinances to inform you.
But what is your role?
What is my role as a
parent is to follow them.
If you'll see this here again, he says,
this is my command and to teach you
the statues and the ordinances, right?
And he says it's, you may follow them
in the land you're about to enter.
So I want you to think about this as.
I'm teaching you as Moses is teaching you,
as the word of God is teaching you daily.
Your role and responsibility is to follow
what you're being taught to follow it.
And he says in the land
you're about to enter.
And I would say this, he's telling you
to follow into the land you're about to
enter into your homes and into your jobs
tomorrow and into your kids' activities
the next day and wherever you go.
You are to follow these commands, not out
of religious duty, but because you see
what God has given you as an is something
greater, something to be passed on.
I would say this, many of us, if we
have an inheritance, we wanna pass
it on to our kids and bless them.
The greatest inheritance you
will ever have is the spiritual
inheritance that you pass on.
You have such an opportunity to do that.
And so when we look at
this, it is our role.
To be a part of helping them, right?
To, to see that, that we
are the ones to follow.
And so we move on here and it, and it says
specifically here at the end of verse two.
Um, uh, it says, do this so that you
may fear the Lord your God all the
days of your life by keeping all of
its statues and commands as I've given
you to your son and to your grandson.
And so whenever he's looking
at this, it's not just for you.
And when we talk about God's called
you to personally follow him, but it's
really, he's called you to personally
follow him so that it can be passed down
to your son and your grandson again.
Why is he only speaking to men
so you don't feel left out here
again, the man's responsibility.
We think about this time, the man's
responsibility was to lead his home.
But in that day, it was actually
to also train up his son in
the way that he should go.
So just to kinda give you some examples,
when you begin to look back in history
at about age three, no matter if
you were a daughter or a son, you
will begin training for your future.
The wives would take the responsibility
with the ladies to teach them home stuff
because that was their role at that
time, and that's not a sexist thing.
That was just their role.
They learned how to do homely
duties, but it was also the mother's
responsibility to train her up
to know how to be a godly woman.
But it was also the husband's
responsibility to train their son
at age three, how to be a godly son.
And follower of God.
And not only did he teach 'em
about God, he taught 'em about,
uh, how to learn a job trade.
He taught 'em also.
Here's fun.
One of the funny things, one of
the things that they were required
to teach them was how to swim.
I guess there must have been a
lot of water around there is why
they had to teach 'em how to swim.
So dad's that your responsibility
to teach your son how to swim.
Okay, so I, I look at this and say
that was why he was speaking directly
to the fathers is because it was their
role to teach their sons and to be
a godly example for their families.
Um, And, and I think it's so
important for us not to miss that,
that it's our responsibility in this.
So when we think about the fathers
and the mother's role investing in
this, he goes on in verse three to
to go a little bit further, right?
He says, do this so that
you may fear the Lord.
And just so you know what it comes
to fearing the Lord, this is not like
fear as though he's gonna smite me.
I look at fear as something
that we place as honorable.
Something that we basically are
choosing to submit ourselves to
because we know it is greater.
And I would say this, we're also modeling
to our kids when we submit ourselves to
the Lord, what it means to fear the Lord,
that he has something greater, that he is
something in his word, and, and then the
commands that we follow something greater.
And so he says, obviously to fear
the Lord, but then he goes on
in verse three and he says this.
He says, um, where am I at my.
I gotta find three.
There it is.
Listen, Israel and be careful to
follow so that you may prosper and
multiply greatly because the Lord
your God, the God of your fathers has
promised you a land of milk and honey.
He uses this word careful.
And whenever I begin to just
envision what does careful mean?
I, I think of being careful
in the fact of walking up.
A cliff and I'm being careful
by standing away from the cliff.
Let me, let me just give you
another practical example.
This past week we were out in, uh, one
of the Great Lakes, lake Erie, and we
were walking up to this lighthouse and
over to the left side we saw a snake.
No big deal.
Let's over here on the left
side, and we walked a little
further, we saw another snake.
Which is okay cuz I kept walking a
little bit further the other direction.
On our way back there
was a family of snakes.
So if you don't know me, I hate snakes.
I'm terrified of them.
So guess what I carefully did,
walked really far away from them.
I was careful to look where my feet
were going cuz I was afraid they were
gonna crawl out where my feet were.
Okay.
So whenever I think about being careful,
what that means is I'm highly intentional.
I'm aware of my surroundings.
I'm always thinking on.
Amen.
God's word.
I'm always thinking on God's truths.
It's always present in my mind,
and I'm thinking of situations
of how that I can follow Jesus.
So he says, be careful to follow
these laws and precepts, and for
us, again, it's to follow Jesus.
And when we look at this, he says
that so that you may prosper, and
he begins to talk about this milk
and honey and this land, right?
The, the land that they're
gonna go into is milk and honey.
And that does not mean, not sound
great to you because you're lactose
intolerant and you like sugar, not honey.
And that doesn't mean anything to you.
Okay?
This is not really what
he's talking about.
Milk and honey was, milk was just
a daily thing that he provided.
So your daily pro things that
you need for your life, but
honey was something special.
And we think about this, what
does that look like for us?
Is so that we may prosper, prosper,
and be fruitful in our lives.
And what that means is
what God has for us.
And when I think of fruitful, I think
of the, uh, fruits of the spirit, that
when we follow, carefully follow the
Lord, we begin to experience joy and
peace and patience, and we begin to
experience the fruits that God has for us.
And I would even say this,
that we begin to be successful
at the things that matter.
Go back to this.
What is the one thing that
should matter the most to you?
Raising a Godly family.
So that they come to know the Lord.
Here's the thing.
They're gonna figure out
what job they're gonna get.
They're gonna figure out, you
know, all these things about life.
But if they know Jesus, Jesus will be the
one that guides them and directs them.
So that is the most important thing.
So as we follow carefully, we
will be successful in what we do.
And then he goes into verse four and five.
This is the part where we see.
The greatest commandment and
within, uh, the Jewish tradition
was they would call this the shamma.
I don't typically use big words in
here, but it is something that if
you, anybody ever watch the chosen
series, okay, I'm the only one.
A couple people, if you have watched
the chosen series, which is a great one,
there's a lot of good things in there.
They actually repeat the,
they talk about the shaman.
This is what they're repeating,
and, and this is what it says.
It says, listen, Israel, the Lord are God.
The Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God with all
your heart, with all your soul,
and with all your strength.
And most of us.
If you were like me early on in my faith,
I didn't like reading the Old Testament.
Just being honest.
It didn't make a ton of sense to me.
It makes a lot more sense now because
I've spent time in it and I've studied
it, but I actually heard this first
in the New Testament and Jesus was the
one to give this command, and so he
was really just repeating this command
is to love the Lord your God, with all
your heart, mind, soul, and strength.
And when we look at this, verse four,
the first thing, when we think about our
personal relationships with Jesus, right?
What does it mean to
personally follow Jesus?
Is to personally follow him alone.
That's what I see here.
I see Moses speaking to the men
saying, Hey, you need to follow these
things carefully, but then he says,
you need to follow the Lord as one.
Now, why did he say one?
I believe it's because we are
easily distracted with other.
Little g gods or idols
in our lives as men.
Lemme just gonna speak
to the men right now.
Men, we seem to identify our
lives with our professions.
And what we begin to do is
it becomes our identity.
And then in our thoughts is, is,
you know, whenever our kids need
something, well, I, I worked, don't
I, I provide food for you, don't I?
I provide money to do your activities.
Isn't that enough?
We begin to identify and make that
the most important things in our
lives as providers in our home.
That's the most important thing.
Truthfully, that's not the most
important thing, is to worship
God alone, the one true God alone.
And I think it's easy for us to
get distracted by other things.
And so here's just another one.
If it's not our jobs, here's how
we can easily get distracted.
It's just our personal fulfillment
and our own satisfaction.
As fathers, we again begin, and I'm
speaking directly to fathers right now.
This could be parents or anybody else,
but as fathers, we work all day and then
we should be able to do something for
ourselves, which I'm not actually against.
I think you should take some personal
time for yourself, but we begin to
be so consumed by our extracurricular
activities, and we're so consumed
by just providing for our families
that at the end of the day, we have
nothing to give our kids, and all our
kids see is that we're more committed
to our jobs, we're more committed to
our personal things that we enjoy.
And we're modeling for them
what it means to follow Jesus.
So here's, just imagine
what happens as a parent.
You need to follow Jesus.
You need to read your Bible, but they
don't ever see you read your Bible.
They never see you
practically following Jesus.
They see you treating
people like, you know what?
You come to church, but
you really aren't engaged.
You're probably scrolling,
scrolling social media while
the pastor's up here talking.
You know, you send 'em off to
class and you sometimes don't
even come to the service.
They're talking about their class.
Anybody have their kids get in your car
and start talking about their class?
Anybody?
Do you get in your car and start
talking to kids about what you hear in
service or are you talking about lunch?
I mean, I'm not, some of you probably
do, but many of us will just quickly
turn to, I've got work tomorrow.
I've got a plan.
I've gotta get so distracted by this.
And the kids are sitting here going, but
aren't I supposed to follow Jesus as one?
And so he's, he makes this
statement, the Lord our God is one.
Because the people of Israel
were known to add other things
into their life to be priority.
We are just like them.
Are we?
Not every one of us are just like them.
And so he uses that specifically, right?
So maybe we need to remind ourselves
that we have one God that has
redeemed us for a purpose, and
that should be our sole focus.
Yes, we have a job.
Yes, we have other extracurricular
activities, but what are
we modeling to our kids?
Number five or, uh, the verse five.
It says this, he says the love,
the Lord your God with our, your
heart, mind, soul, and strength.
Right?
I think I added mine to this one,
but that's in the New Testament.
Really, this can be summarized for this.
I'm not gonna spend a ton of time
on it just for the fact of, if you
begin to study this a little bit
deeper, and I wanna read this even
in the message version because
I think it helps us see this.
In the message version, it
says this, it says, love God,
your God with your whole heart.
Love him with all that's in you
love him with all you've got.
Basically what this verse is saying,
you need to love God with everything.
And, and if you name something,
well, what about this?
God's like, yes.
Well, what about that?
Yes.
Yes, your time, your money,
your talents, your, you name it.
Love God with everything you have.
With everything you have.
So as fathers, we model what loving
and following Jesus truly is.
As parents, as aspiring parents,
we will model to our kids what
is most important in our lives.
So it starts with us
following Jesus first.
If we wanna make the greatest
impact in our kids' lives, it starts
with us following Jesus first.
Then what's the second thing
to prioritize as a family, to
teach our kids to follow Jesus.
We've been talking about modeling
and all those things, but we need to
teach, and this is where we'll continue
to see how Moses points this out.
He says, to love the God
personally, love God personally.
Do that, yes, love God personally.
And then he says this in verse
six, these words that I am giving
you today are to be in your heart.
And then he says to repeat
them to your children.
Talk about them when they sit, when
you sit in your homes and walk around
on the road and when you lie down and
when you get up, and when you bind
them as a sign on your hand and let
them be a symbol on your forehead
and write them on the doorposts of
your house and in your city gates.
See, dad's, I, I would just say this,
and even parents, I think at times we
think, well, I'm modeling it right?
I, I don't have to teach them.
I can just live.
I can just live and then hopefully they're
just gonna catch everything that I'm
doing and they're just gonna repeat it.
Well, we did see that little kid
did that right in that story.
But at times they're gonna start
questioning, well, dad, why
are you reacting that way, dad?
Why do you do that?
And are you just gonna tell 'em just
because are you gonna actually teach them?
And so when we think about this, we have
to teach our kids, and it starts by.
Everything that we have learned from
the Lord has to be on our hearts.
And I, I wanna translate it this way.
It has to be on the tip of our tongue.
What does that mean?
That we know it so well, that we
don't have to even think before
we start teaching our kids.
It's something that we naturally do
in the natural overflow of our life.
So why should it be on our hearts?
Because verse seven tells us that we
need to repeat them to our children.
And the only things that I repeat to my
children are things that I know really
well, cuz it's not gonna be the things
I don't know well, does that make sense?
It's only gonna be the things I know well.
So we'll only be able to repeat
these things in which we know well.
But I think it's important, and this
is one of the keys to parenting,
sometimes we're exhausted.
Anybody get exhausted in parenting,
it just, we get exhausted.
So what do we wanna do?
Do it because I said so.
Well, right here, when he says
to repeat what he's saying is
don't shove it down their throats.
You need to do this, this, this, and this.
You need to follow Jesus.
You need to be in the Word.
You just need to do it.
You think that's gonna encourage
your kids to go love the Lord?
No.
Just something else.
And I know we don't have physical
Bibles as much anymore, but please
don't take your Bible and slap your
kid across the head and say, Just get
the word in you like, I'm serious.
Like we can't just bash.
And that's figuratively, figuratively
and literally we don't need to bash
the word of God over our children's
heads to convince them to follow Jesus.
We need to teach them.
And when, when it comes to teaching,
think about teaching them the way that you
wanna be taught in a very lovingly way.
Because at first it's hard.
We don't know everything, and
we're confused and, and there's
a lot of things that go into it.
And so we need to teach them.
And then we need to model it by
the practical way in which we live
every day, and that's where he talk.
He says this.
He says, talk about it when you sit in
your house and when you lie down and when
you get up, when you walk along the road.
Don't just talk at your kids.
Talk with your kids.
They're a lot smarter than you think.
I would say this.
Start asking a ton of questions.
That's one of the favorite
ways I love engaging my kids.
I just ask 'em questions.
I just did it the other day.
In the middle of this message I was
writing, I actually asked Peyton.
I said, Hey.
Am I a good father?
And she says, of course she's
gonna say, yeah, because she
doesn't wanna say anything.
Why?
Of course, she starts stumbling
over herself a little bit and she
begins to give me some examples
and, and I asked that question and
I said, Hey, just be real with me.
You can actually say some
negative things with me.
I need to hear this.
And you know what she told me?
She says, I don't like whenever
you shut us down, whenever we're
really trying to explain ourselves.
I'm like, that's good feedback.
Like I need to know that rather
than just telling her to sit
down, shut up and listen to what
I say, I truly want to teach her.
And I wanna talk with her.
And so we understand this
talking parents goes both ways.
And I'll just extend this to marriage.
Hey, marriage, if you're married
in this room, talking goes both
ways and listening does too.
I don't like that, but
I just like telling.
Yes, thanks Orville.
I'm not the only one.
What I love about this is he says, not
only when you walk, but when you sleep
at night, when you wake up, you know what
my number one routine as a father has
been ever since our kids have been born
nighttime prayer for the last 14 years.
I've done nighttime prayer with my kids.
It's not, and occasionally
Brittany will do it whenever
I'm just busy 99% of the time.
I'm walking in, we gather up,
we take turns, we make it fun.
Channing has Sundays.
Tegan has Mondays.
Peyton has Tuesdays.
Sterling finally has Thursdays.
I have Wednesdays.
We do rock paper, scissors
on Fridays and Saturdays.
We make it fun and we talk about things
that need to be prayed for and we pray
together and, and I look at that as
we didn't make it this real religious
thing that we're forcing them to do.
It is something that we enjoy to do.
We do it in the mornings when
we pray for breakfast, we talk
about it throughout the day.
Why do we do that?
Because what we believe the most is
what we'll talk about the most, what we
enjoy the most, what impacts our life
the most is what we'll do the most.
And so our kids see us do things and
prioritize things that may not seem
exciting at the time, but the impact.
Tremendous.
And that's why he says to talk
about it and to walk and to do it.
And so we do this because it
influences our children's lives
to do what model after us.
This is when we begin to see our kids
start to have it on their hearts so that
they can begin to walk and talk about
the truths of the of God's word and
to sit in the house and begin to have
discussions about who Jesus is and to
to begin to go to school and to invite
their friends to church and share Jesus
with their friends and to begin to.
Pray at night without their parents
when they're not around and begin
to wake up and begin to pray
with the Lord throughout the day.
We set the standard as
parents, as fathers.
How to follow Jesus.
But we have to teach them.
We can't just expect the church to do it.
We can't just expect them to
figure it out on their own.
And I love what he says.
Moses is going back to the father,
the leader, the parents in the home.
And he says this in verse eight.
He says, bind them as a sign
on your head hand and let them
be a symbol on your forehead.
Crazy enough.
Again, even you'll see this if
you go to Israel today, Jews
will actually bind the scripture.
They write scripture and they bind
it on their left hand, and they'll
actually put this band around their
forehead with scripture on there.
They're putting it on their forehead
and they're putting it on their arm.
And then you'll begin to see that they
write this scripture on their doorpost.
And if they're religious and
spiritual enough, they write it
on every doorpost in their house.
You know, they always wanna make sure
that they're remembering the word
of God and that their kids see it,
and that their kids see two things.
I wanna tell you this.
Number one, it's around our arms.
Why does he say to put it around
our hands or around our arms?
Because it's something
that we actively do.
We don't just read scripture,
we don't just have knowledge,
but we're action based.
So when we think about our
arms, it's reminding us to be
actively living out our faith.
Modeling for our kids, but when
we have it on our foreheads, it
says, we're not ashamed, because
I'll just tell you that's goofy.
I mean, just imagine if you rode
John three 16 in your forehead.
It's gonna be a little goofy, but
it's publicly displaying your faith.
See, parents, I, I just, I'm gonna
be straight up honest with you.
Here's what will happen.
The, the most spiritual time you'll
see, your kids will see you is on
Sunday morning, Monday through Saturday.
They don't see godly parents.
They don't see you pray.
They don't see you in the word,
they don't see you talk to,
to, to, to them about Jesus.
And, and then they, they're
like, something's off here.
Well, what do we need to do?
We need to bind them on
our arm and live them out.
We need to put them on our forehead.
We need to be unashamedly disgusting
our faith, not only with our kids, but
letting them see you talk to other people.
Modeling who Jesus is.
One of my favorite things to do, and it's
something that I've challenged myself
to do when I make a mistake as a father.
Don't just pass it off.
Sit down with your kids
and say, I made a mistake.
I'm sorry.
Will you forgive me?
I'm modeling humility to my kids.
Am I perfect?
Absolutely not.
Just ask my kids, they'll tell you.
But those are things that teach them.
Jesus forgave me.
That's usually what I tell 'em.
I ask God to forgive me for what I just
did, or what I said, or how I acted.
Will you forgive me?
And it's modeling to them who Jesus is.
So when we look at this text
today, I believe Moses is not just
preparing the next generation to not
follow after their parents' path.
But he's preparing all generations to not
follow after the previous generations.
Who have forgotten God.
So we remind ourselves the importance
of being the example for our kids
to be example, not only in how
we follow Jesus, but in how we
teach our kids to follow Jesus.
Here's the thing, as parents, I'm just
telling you, I'm that same parent.
I want my kids to be
successful at education.
I want my kids to be successful at their
sports and all kinds of other things.
But if I talk about those things
way more than Jesus, guess what?
They'll start prioritizing more, wanting
to be successful at education and
sports more than following after Jesus.
It's okay to talk about those things,
but it's so much more important
to teach them to follow Jesus.
So I want us to think through
this as we have invitation today.
Number one, that we set the
example, and Moses is reminding
us, he's speaking directly to us.
And here's the thing that I, I
want everybody to understand this.
There's no guarantee that
your kids will follow Jesus.
We can't make that decision for
them, but we can set them off in the
right foot, in the right direction.
And this is something, again,
God's word is, is so clear.
When we look at two
scriptures and we think about.
What has happened in the
past to these people?
So Deuteronomy six, they're
not in the promised land yet.
They're getting ready to
go into the Promised Land.
Joshua's actually gonna be the one
that leads into the promised land.
They go in, they conquer all this land.
Joshua gathers them towards
the end of his life, and here's
what he says in Joshua 24 15.
He's speaking to the same people, he
says, but if serving the Lord seems
undesirable to you, then choose for
yourselves this day whom you will serve.
Whether the gods of your ancestors served
beyond the Euphrates or the gods of the
Amorites, or in whose land you are living.
But as for me and my household,
we will serve the Lord today.
You truly need to ask this question, and
I I'm, I'm challenging you with this.
Have you chose to serve the Lord or
are you choosing to serve the little
g gods, the idols in your life?
I mean, that's a true question is
what is more important to you, Jesus,
or your job or your activities or
everything else is that more important?
So choose today.
That's what Joshua's challenged us to do.
Choose today whom you will serve.
Are we committed to modeling for
our kids how to follow Jesus?
Are we following Jesus?
Are we teaching them?
And, and so, you know, I just
wanna really quickly stop if
you're struggling with that.
I would love to walk alongside you,
not because I'm perfect, but because
I want to walk alongside anybody
that wants to desire to do this.
But what I want to challenge you with
is, do you know that the people of Joshua
responded and said, you're right, Joshua.
We don't wanna serve those other gods.
We wanna serve the one true God.
And you know what?
That generation did, that generation
served the Lord their whole lives.
But let's pick up in
judges two 10 through 12.
It says this, after the whole generation
had been gathered to their ancestors,
which means now that next generation that
Moses was speaking to that Josh would
just got done speaking to it says after
they'd been gathered to their ancestors.
Another generation grew up who
knew neither the Lord knew nor
what he had done for Israel.
And then the Israelites did what
was evil on the side of the Lord and
served the Baals, and they forsook the
Lord and the God of their ancestors
who brought them out of Egypt.
They followed and worshiped various
gods of peoples around them.
Here's the thing.
They got half of the everything
we talked about, right?
They followed God all the days
of their lives, but they forgot
to teach their next generation.
They forgot to teach the kids.
I don't wanna do that.
I, I don't wanna follow Jesus
wholeheartedly and leave my kids
to figure it out on their own and
turn into the next generation.
That did not, and this is so
crazy, who knew neither the
Lord nor what he had done.
They did not talk when they were
walking down the road about what God
had done for them in Egypt and how
they get in the problem promised land.
They did not talk in the evenings.
They did not talk in the mornings.
They didn't write it on their
door post and talk about why
they wrote on their door post.
They just religiously followed
after God and just hoped the
best and it didn't work out.
This may be some heavy stuff for
you on Father's Day, but to me this
is an encouraging thing because
we had the opportunity to change.
Now, for those of you who aren't
parents or fathers, it's a challenge
for you to start now and following
Jesus so that when you have kids,
you'll be ready to teach them.
For some of you, you already have kids
or grandkids you can choose today whom
you will serve and recommit yourself
to the Lord and prepare yourself to
start going home and teaching your kids.
And if you don't know how to
teach them and you need help ask.
It's why we're at church.
It's why we're here.
We work together to help one another.
Amen.
So let's pray and then I
just wanna lead you guys.
To pray specifically for this thing.
So, Lord Jesus, we thank
you so much for today.
We thank you for your word and how it's
truth and how it's timeless because
even though Moses was speaking to the
people of Israel, it's so crazy, Lord,
how he's speaking directly to us today.
Because we at times are placing
other things as a priority
in our life and not you.
We may follow Jesus, but we
are not following him hard
heartedly and maybe today.
We need to surrender back to you.
Maybe we are following after Jesus,
but we are not teaching our kids.
Maybe we sit in this room and we wonder
if we'll ever have kids, and maybe
you just need to remind us today,
Lord, that we can begin to prepare
no matter what happens in the future.
God, you are good and we are so thankful
for your word to remind us of that.
So as we continue to pray,
here's what I love, being able
to lead you through Invitation.
Invitation is an opportunity to consider
what we have learned today and how we
begin to now ask the Lord to guide us.
And the first part that I really wanna
lead you through today, I want you to
just take some time to evaluate your
personal relationship with Jesus.
If you have a personal relationship with
Jesus, I want you to evaluate whether
you are truly following Jesus or maybe
you've just fallen away and you begin
to serve other idols or other gods.
You've been placing other priorities.
And if that's you, I want you to
spend some time in repentance and
ask in the Lord to prioritize being
a godly parent, future parent.
If there's kids in this room to
be a Godly child to your parents.
Just begin to pray right now and take
some time to say, God, help me follow you.
And place you first, the
one true God in your life.
So we'll take just a minute
to pray for that specifically.
All right.
The next thing that I want to encourage
you to pray for is if you've committed
back to just following Jesus the way
that he has called you to follow.
Now is how can you help your kids?
And some of you may be clueless
right now on how to teach
your kids or your grandkids.
I want you to pray right now for God
to give you wisdom how to do that for
God, to give you a passion to teach your
kids who he is by walking with them and
talking with them, and writing on the
doorpost and being public with your faith.
Ask God right now.
Spend some time and ask God, God help me.
Know how to do that either now or
in the future when you have kids.
Ask God to help you know how
to teach the next generation.
So let's take some time to pray for that.
Lord Jesus, we are so thankful, Lord for
you, and we're so thankful for just your
spirit and so thankful that you forgive
us and that you consistently pursue us.
Lord, I'm reminded that your
word is a lamp unto our feet.
Lord, it is there to guide us in our
walks with you and to remind us when
we've steered off in the wrong path,
when we haven't been prioritizing you
and we've been placing other things.
Above you.
So Lord, thank you for some time
today for each one of us, Lord, to
ask you to come into our lives and to
help us place you in the right place.
Lord, I'm also thankful that you are
the one that gives us truths in your
word to begin to teach our children in.
The only way that we'll be able to teach
our children is if we know those truths.
So, Lord, I'm praying for just.
Passion in each one of our hearts,
Lord, to go out and to know you more.
And then as we know you more, we begin to
teach or talk about that with our kids.
We begin to discuss your word
and read your word together and
pray together and model what it
looks like to follow after you.
Not in perfection, Lord, but even in
the brokenness when we make mistakes.
Lord, I pray that you allow us
to model that to our kids, how
we can receive forgiveness.
God, I pray that if there's anybody
in this room that doesn't know you.
That they don't have that personal
relationship with you, Lord.
And so, and because they don't have
that, they can't teach their kids
how to know you and Lord, they're
just wondering if today is a day that
they need to give their lives to you.
Lord, I just pray that you give them
peace that today they can give their
lives to you through repenting of
their sins and saying yes to you and
asking for you to come into their
lives or give them the, the strength
to do that, to surrender that today.
Lord, don't leave us unchanged.
Lord, challenge us today to go
out and be better parents, future
parents, grandparents, so that our
kids may come to know you and we
just pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.
Let's stand and let's worship together.